src/plugins/README.md, before:

# Plugins

Plugins are used to perform computations against the retrieved webpack bundle stats, with the main focus being on surfacing issues between base and head stats.

## Usage

Refer to [../config](../config) for how to set up the configuration `webpack-bundle-delta`.

By default, plugins are configured to run based on [../config/allPlugins.ts](../config/allPlugins.ts). The idea is to make use of all the plugins available to ensure maximum utility and details are given to the user.

As an example of how to configure `size-changes` plugin, here is an example

``` json
{
  "webpackBundleDelta": {
    "plugins": [
      {
        "name": "size-changes",
        "config": {
          "significance": {
            "sizeDiffBytes": 300,
            "sizeDiffPercent": 4,
            "gzSizeDiffBytes": 100,
            "gzSizeDiffPercent": 5,
            "brSizeDiffBytes": 80,
            "brSizeDiffPercent": 6,
          },
          "budget": [
            {
              "chunkName": "vendors.js",
              "size": "500KB",
              "brSize": "50KB"
            },
            {
              "chunkName": "App.js",
              "gzSize": "100KB"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The `plugins` option takes an array of objects with the following properties:
- `name`: name of the plugin, this will also act as a resolver in the following order (if it cannot find it, it moves to the next strategy):
  - In `webpack-bundle-delta`'s plugins folder
  - require it (assuming it is a node module)
  - require it based on the established `config` location file (name then can be relative path to plugin)
  - require it based on the `process.cwd()` (name then can be relative path to plugin)
- `config`: configuration object to be passed to the plugin
  - if plugin does not require any configurations, set to `true`
  - if you wish to disable the plugin, set to `false`

For more information about the appropriate `config` values, refer to the individual plugin's documentation.

## Creating a plugin

Every plugin should do the following:

- Create a class extending the [`BasePlugin`](BasePlugin.ts) implementing the necessary methods:
  - `constructor`: extend the `BasePluginOptions` where `config` will be the configuration of your plugin (passed to it by [`index.ts`](index.ts))
    - Be sure to parse both the `baseCompilationStats` and `headCompilationStats` provided to the constructor
  - `summaryOutput`: short output (with no markdown content) to describe the result
    - If this isn't necessary for the plugin, return `null` or `''`
  - `dangerOutput`: output to be placed within the collapsed content of the PR comment which includes greater detail as ot the result of the plugin
    - Ensure that the output adheres to [GitHub Markdown guidelines](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
  - `cliOutput`: output to be included in the CLI content
    - Keep markdown to a minimum (for example do not backtick (`) things)
  - `warningMessages` and `errorMessages` (both optional): messages that will appear as a warning/error. If errorMessages is provided, it will cause the application to error out.
- If your plugin offers configurations, create a `config.ts` file:
  - export interface with the name `PluginNameConfig` (for example `SizeChangesConfig`)
  - Document your configuration (suggest using the [Visual Studio Extension `Document This`](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=oouo-diogo-perdigao.docthis))
  - Export a default configuration (to be used if the consuming application does not specify one)
  - The nature of plugins should focus on "the delta", meaning only what has been introduced/changed/removed. However, it can be useful to also highlight existing behaviour too. But these should be hidden by a config flag `showExisting` (aligning with other plugins).
- Add the default configuration to [../config/allPlugins.ts](../config/allPlugins.ts)
  - If the plugin does not require configuration, set `config` to `true`
  - If the plugin should not be run without application knowledge (such as the [Restrict Plugin](./restrict)), set `config` to `false` (which will negate its usage)
- When parsing webpack compilation stats files, it is best to do so with the following template (which ensure both webpack single AND multi-compile parsing support):
  ``` javascript
  import { extractStats } from 'webpack-bundle-delta';

  const yourPluginLogic = (compilationStats: webpack.Stats.ToJsonOutput) => {
    const statsToParse: webpack.Stats.ToJsonOutput[] = extractStats(compilationStats);
    // use `statsToParse` to determine logic - map, reduce, etc.
  };
  ```

If you wish to create your own plugin, you can either publish it as a node package or have the code simply live somewhere within your repo. Then refer to it in the `name` property on the Usage (documented above).

Note: Defaults can be done within the plugin by checking if the `config` property of the constructor options is `undefined`, and if it is apply the default options. However, this usage cannot be merged together with the configuration manager.

Commit message:

feat: add webpack 5 support (#14)
* refactor: remap all webpack usage to webpack4

so that we can use webpack@5, lets rename all webpack@4 usage to webpack4 and use package
aliasing to allow us to add webpack@5

* refactor: rework extractStats to support both webpack v4 and v5

* refactor(dataSources): update data sources to expose extracted stats rather than raw stats

to help make things more uniform, we will expose the extracted stats from the data sources rather
than requiring plugins to do so manually

* feat: support webpack v5 stats files

* docs: update docs to reflect the change in usage of extractStats

* refactor: review: move types out of const file to its own file

* refactor: review: improve approach to normalizing stats

instead of requiring the data sources to normalize, the system will now do it... rename extractStats
to normalizeStats, move types to live in types file for better access from other areas of the code

* bump webpack v5 dependency

Co-authored-by: David Houweling <davidhouweling@users.noreply.github.com>

src/plugins/README.md, after:

# Plugins

Plugins are used to perform computations against the retrieved webpack bundle stats, with the main focus being on surfacing issues between base and head stats.

## Usage

Refer to [../config](../config) for how to set up the configuration `webpack-bundle-delta`.

By default, plugins are configured to run based on [../config/allPlugins.ts](../config/allPlugins.ts). The idea is to make use of all the plugins available to ensure maximum utility and details are given to the user.

As an example of how to configure `size-changes` plugin, here is an example

``` json
{
  "webpackBundleDelta": {
    "plugins": [
      {
        "name": "size-changes",
        "config": {
          "significance": {
            "sizeDiffBytes": 300,
            "sizeDiffPercent": 4,
            "gzSizeDiffBytes": 100,
            "gzSizeDiffPercent": 5,
            "brSizeDiffBytes": 80,
            "brSizeDiffPercent": 6,
          },
          "budget": [
            {
              "chunkName": "vendors.js",
              "size": "500KB",
              "brSize": "50KB"
            },
            {
              "chunkName": "App.js",
              "gzSize": "100KB"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The `plugins` option takes an array of objects with the following properties:
- `name`: name of the plugin, this will also act as a resolver in the following order (if it cannot find it, it moves to the next strategy):
  - In `webpack-bundle-delta`'s plugins folder
  - require it (assuming it is a node module)
  - require it based on the established `config` location file (name then can be relative path to plugin)
  - require it based on the `process.cwd()` (name then can be relative path to plugin)
- `config`: configuration object to be passed to the plugin
  - if plugin does not require any configurations, set to `true`
  - if you wish to disable the plugin, set to `false`

For more information about the appropriate `config` values, refer to the individual plugin's documentation.

## Creating a plugin

Every plugin should do the following:

- Create a class extending the [`BasePlugin`](BasePlugin.ts) implementing the necessary methods:
  - `constructor`: extend the `BasePluginOptions` where `config` will be the configuration of your plugin (passed to it by [`index.ts`](index.ts))
    - Be sure to parse both the `baseCompilationStats` and `headCompilationStats` provided to the constructor
    - Both `base` and `head` stats will have been passed through the [`normalizeStats`](../helpers/normalizeStats.ts) to provide a consistent approach when dealing with the stats
    - It is best to work with the `.stats` property which is the normalized stats, i.e. forcing the stats to always be an array to make it easier to work with both single and multi-compile configurations
  - `summaryOutput`: short output (with no markdown content) to describe the result
    - If this isn't necessary for the plugin, return `null` or `''`
  - `dangerOutput`: output to be placed within the collapsed content of the PR comment which includes greater detail as ot the result of the plugin
    - Ensure that the output adheres to [GitHub Markdown guidelines](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
  - `cliOutput`: output to be included in the CLI content
    - Keep markdown to a minimum (for example do not backtick (`) things)
  - `warningMessages` and `errorMessages` (both optional): messages that will appear as a warning/error. If errorMessages is provided, it will cause the application to error out.
- If your plugin offers configurations, create a `config.ts` file:
  - export interface with the name `PluginNameConfig` (for example `SizeChangesConfig`)
  - Document your configuration (suggest using the [Visual Studio Extension `Document This`](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=oouo-diogo-perdigao.docthis))
  - Export a default configuration (to be used if the consuming application does not specify one)
  - The nature of plugins should focus on "the delta", meaning only what has been introduced/changed/removed. However, it can be useful to also highlight existing behaviour too. But these should be hidden by a config flag `showExisting` (aligning with other plugins).
- Add the default configuration to [../config/allPlugins.ts](../config/allPlugins.ts)
  - If the plugin does not require configuration, set `config` to `true`
  - If the plugin should not be run without application knowledge (such as the [Restrict Plugin](./restrict)), set `config` to `false` (which will negate its usage)

If you wish to create your own plugin, you can either publish it as a node package or have the code simply live somewhere within your repo. Then refer to it in the `name` property on the Usage (documented above).

Note: Defaults can be done within the plugin by checking if the `config` property of the constructor options is `undefined`, and if it is apply the default options. However, this usage cannot be merged together with the configuration manager.
