docs/gather-webpack-stats.md, before:

# Gather Webpack Stats

There are a few ways to get webpack stats.

## Webpack CLI `--profile --json` output

Webpack can output compilation stats by passing the `--profile --json` flags.

```
webpack --profile --json > stats.json
```

This file can then be used by `webpack-bundle-delta` to analyse and compare.

## Using a Stats plugin

An alternate approach is to use a webpack plugin to produce compilation stats. This gives more granular control as you can pick and choose what stats to gather, and should allow for reduced impact on the build (as compared to default configuration).

Install and use [FormidableLabs/webpack-stats-plugin](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/webpack-stats-plugin) or [stats-webpack-plugin](https://github.com/unindented/stats-webpack-plugin) as part of your webpack config.

As documented by [`webpack-stats-plugin`'s basic example](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack-stats-plugin#basic)

``` js
# webpack.config.js
const { StatsWriterPlugin } = require('webpack-stats-plugin');
 
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    // Everything else **first**.
 
    // Write out stats file to build directory.
    new StatsWriterPlugin({
      filename: 'stats.json' // Default
    })
  ]
}
```

If you do desire more granular control, please ensure to set the following `stats` options to `true` as to align with what the default webpack stats outputs:
``` js
    new StatsWriterPlugin({
      stats: {
        assets: true,
        entrypoints: true,
        chunks: true,
        modules: true,
      }
    }),
```

## Working with Parallel Webpack

[Trivago's `parallel-webpack`](https://github.com/trivago/parallel-webpack) is a great tool to help speed up multiple webpack compilations.

When using `--profile --json` with `parallel-webpack`, the output isn't exactly aligned with what `webpack` itself would produced, but we have catered for that with the [`extractStats.ts` helper](../src/helpers/extractStats.ts).

However, when used with a Stats Plugin such as `webpack-stats-plugin`, there is a good chance the only output for it will be the compilation which finished last. This is because each plugin is executed at the end of the compile step.

To overcome this problem, you can make use of [`MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin`](../src/helpers/MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin.ts).

Enhancing [the basic example](https://github.com/trivago/parallel-webpack#basic-example)

``` js
# webpack.config.js
const path = require('path');
const { StatsWriterPlugin } = require('webpack-stats-plugin');
const { MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin } = require('webpack-bundle-delta');

const outputPath: path.resolve(__dirname, './dist');

// this will look in the `assetsPath` folder for all `inputFiles` and output a file with the `filename` containing all the stats
const mergeStats = new MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin({
  assetsPath: outputPath,
  inputFiles: ['statsA.json', 'statsB.json'],
  filename: 'statsAll.json',
});

module.exports = [
  {
    entry: './pageA.js',
    output: {
      path: outputPath,
      filename: 'pageA.bundle.js',
    },
    plugins: [
      // Everything else **first**.
  
      // Write out stats file to build directory.
      new StatsWriterPlugin({
        filename: 'statsA.json' // Default
      }),
      mergeStats,
    ]
  },
  {
    entry: './pageB.js',
    output: {
      path: outputPath,
      filename: 'pageB.bundle.js'
    }
    plugins: [
      // Everything else **first**.
  
      // Write out stats file to build directory.
      new StatsWriterPlugin({
        filename: 'statsB.json' // Default
      }),
      mergeStats,
    ]
  }
];
```

Commit message:

feat: add webpack 5 support (#14)
* refactor: remap all webpack usage to webpack4

so that we can use webpack@5, lets rename all webpack@4 usage to webpack4 and use package
aliasing to allow us to add webpack@5

* refactor: rework extractStats to support both webpack v4 and v5

* refactor(dataSources): update data sources to expose extracted stats rather than raw stats

to help make things more uniform, we will expose the extracted stats from the data sources rather
than requiring plugins to do so manually

* feat: support webpack v5 stats files

* docs: update docs to reflect the change in usage of extractStats

* refactor: review: move types out of const file to its own file

* refactor: review: improve approach to normalizing stats

instead of requiring the data sources to normalize, the system will now do it... rename extractStats
to normalizeStats, move types to live in types file for better access from other areas of the code

* bump webpack v5 dependency

Co-authored-by: David Houweling <davidhouweling@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/gather-webpack-stats.md, after:

# Gather Webpack Stats

There are a few ways to get webpack stats.

## Webpack CLI `--profile --json` output

Webpack can output compilation stats by passing the `--profile --json` flags.

```
webpack --profile --json > stats.json
```

This file can then be used by `webpack-bundle-delta` to analyse and compare.

## Using a Stats plugin

An alternate approach is to use a webpack plugin to produce compilation stats. This gives more granular control as you can pick and choose what stats to gather, and should allow for reduced impact on the build (as compared to default configuration).

Install and use [FormidableLabs/webpack-stats-plugin](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/webpack-stats-plugin) or [stats-webpack-plugin](https://github.com/unindented/stats-webpack-plugin) as part of your webpack config.

As documented by [`webpack-stats-plugin`'s basic example](https://www.npmjs.com/package/webpack-stats-plugin#basic)

``` js
# webpack.config.js
const { StatsWriterPlugin } = require('webpack-stats-plugin');
 
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    // Everything else **first**.
 
    // Write out stats file to build directory.
    new StatsWriterPlugin({
      filename: 'stats.json' // Default
    })
  ]
}
```

If you do desire more granular control, please ensure to set the following `stats` options to `true` as to align with what the default webpack stats outputs:
``` js
    new StatsWriterPlugin({
      stats: {
        assets: true,
        entrypoints: true,
        chunks: true,
        modules: true,
      }
    }),
```

## Working with Parallel Webpack

[Trivago's `parallel-webpack`](https://github.com/trivago/parallel-webpack) is a great tool to help speed up multiple webpack compilations.

When using `--profile --json` with `parallel-webpack`, the output isn't exactly aligned with what `webpack` itself would produced, but we have catered for that with the [`normalizeStats.ts` helper](../src/helpers/normalizeStats.ts) which is applied via the data sources logic.

However, when used with a Stats Plugin such as `webpack-stats-plugin`, there is a good chance the only output for it will be the compilation which finished last. This is because each plugin is executed at the end of the compile step.

To overcome this problem, you can make use of [`MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin`](../src/helpers/MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin.ts).

Enhancing [the basic example](https://github.com/trivago/parallel-webpack#basic-example)

``` js
# webpack.config.js
const path = require('path');
const { StatsWriterPlugin } = require('webpack-stats-plugin');
const { MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin } = require('webpack-bundle-delta');

const outputPath: path.resolve(__dirname, './dist');

// this will look in the `assetsPath` folder for all `inputFiles` and output a file with the `filename` containing all the stats
const mergeStats = new MergeCompilationStatsWebpackPlugin({
  assetsPath: outputPath,
  inputFiles: ['statsA.json', 'statsB.json'],
  filename: 'statsAll.json',
});

module.exports = [
  {
    entry: './pageA.js',
    output: {
      path: outputPath,
      filename: 'pageA.bundle.js',
    },
    plugins: [
      // Everything else **first**.
  
      // Write out stats file to build directory.
      new StatsWriterPlugin({
        filename: 'statsA.json' // Default
      }),
      mergeStats,
    ]
  },
  {
    entry: './pageB.js',
    output: {
      path: outputPath,
      filename: 'pageB.bundle.js'
    }
    plugins: [
      // Everything else **first**.
  
      // Write out stats file to build directory.
      new StatsWriterPlugin({
        filename: 'statsB.json' // Default
      }),
      mergeStats,
    ]
  }
];
```
